SAM THOROGOOD: Hey, Everyone.
It's Sam here.
So you might have watched
a few episodes so far
and learned a little bit about
the different parts of Santa
Tracker and how it works.
What I want to do today is
talk about how you actually
build it yourself, and how you
can, quite literally, check out
the source code and
run your own version.
So to start with, let's have
a look at our command line.
We've already checked
out Santa Tracker.
We've gone to Get
Help and got the repo.
And let's look at
what we do now.
Start by checking it out.
You can have a look.
We've got some content here.
It's got a bunch of stuff.
But what you can start
with is by basically
running Yarn install.
And so Yarn's a package manager.
You can fetch that with
Homebrew or some equivalent
on your machine,
and it will then
go and do a bunch of stuff.
In our case, you
can see here it's
pretty fast, because I've
actually checked it out before.
And so it will go and fetch
all its dependencies and things
like that.
What it's actually
doing is it's internally
calling Bower, which is a
package management tool.
It's a little bit older.
It's still needed
for Polymer 2.0.
I know Polymer 3.0 is upgrading
to NPM and that repository,
but for now we still need
to have Bower installed
to check out all the code.
We then run our
build tool, which
is using the gulp build system.
So the default task
that we have in gulp
will build Santa Tracker,
and it will actually
let us serve that folder.
So if I just run serve here and
hit Enter and then load it up--
load this URL--
we'll see that-- it will
take a few seconds to load--
and Santa Tracker will
load up with all its fun
exciting stuff going on.
This version will be
a little bit slower
than production version for
a bunch of reasons, which
I'll cover in a few seconds.
So because we're developers,
and we've got access
to Santa's Village
whenever we like,
you can actually go and
click on these scenes
to see what's going on.
So we can cut Santa's
beard and things like that.
One thing to think about
is that these scenes
will load dynamically.
So if we load the dev
tools, firstly, we'll
see our lovely
responsive design.
But if we go to network here and
set the speed to, say, fast 3G,
we can see the loading happen.
So we actually loaded
the Santa Selfie scene.
So that will load really fast.
Let's go to a scene
we haven't loaded yet.
So this might be
the gift slingshot.
And I love this scene,
which I call boat load.
That's its actual ID, because
it's actually pretty small.
It's not too complicated.
Yet, it does most of the
things that a regular Santa
scene will do.
And we've got every house
in the village, these cards,
is what we call a scene.
Let's click on that now.
What you can notice is
that we're actually--
there's a red bar
at the top here.
And that slowly moves
across the screen
as all the resources, that
are on the right here,
are loaded into the page.
And this is a
pretty small scene.
So it loads pretty fast
even on a slow connection.
We can also play this game.
So how do we get
to these scenes?
If we go to the code and
look at santaapp.html,
this is a Polymer element.
And we've had another
episode on Polymer.
So I won't cover
this extensively.
In the middle here is what we
call the lazy pages element.
And this element is
entirely designed
to load these pages at runtime.
So interestingly
enough, these scenes
aren't on the page when
you load Santa Tracker.
These are essentially
unknown HTML elements
that your browser doesn't
know how to render.
What lazy pages does is
that when the route changes
to that URL, when we want
to load the boat load scene,
for instance, it then
goes and finds, OK, here's
the boat load scene.
It goes, cool.
The path is this HTML path,
including a language field.
It then loads that
into the page.
And when that's
loaded, we can then
show that scene, because
all the resources to do
with that element
are now on the page.
So if you notice, we've
got it open as well.
So a couple of
things to note here.
So firstly is that we bring in
the JavaScript for the scene.
So when you first build and
check out Santa Tracker,
your build might still be
running, because we actually
compile every scene's JavaScript
with Closure Compiler.
The reason we do
this is actually
because a lot of the
scenes are quite old.
They typically
predate-- the majority
of scenes predate Polymer.
And there's a few scenes
which are very modern,
and they're built a
little bit differently,
but most of our games are
written fairly generically.
They don't really
care about Polymer.
And actually, it's kind of
a nice strength of Polymer
in that we kind of wrap
up the HTML and JavaScript
in a very neat way just
within this one file.
So this scene might
have a bunch of things.
It's got a template,
which includes the kind
of inbuilt style we care about.
It also has a bunch
of divs and elements,
like trees and elves and stuff.
This is the cute things you
see around the slingshot scene.
A bit down-- a
bit further below,
we've got a very
interesting message here.
This is an i18n message.
In production, we actually
remove this div completely.
We swap it out for
the message that's
appropriate for your language.
But in dev, it lives here.
So we can quickly
switch languages.
You can actually see this
if we go to the site,
and we got to console and type
document.documentelement.lang
equals, let's say, German.
And a few seconds later, we see
all the language stuff changes.
And the way we do that
is with that element.
But in production,
we've actually
got rid of that
element completely.
If you're curious
about how we do that,
you can actually load
up the gulp scripts--
the replace script here.
So if you have a look
around, what we do
is we actually load
each page into memory,
which is this mutate
function here,
and we do regular
query selectors.
We say, so for everything
with a message ID,
or everything with a--
of this tag name--
OK.
This actually is the wrong--
I see.
Because each message
has that message ID.
So we catch it here first.
We'll actually replace the
content of that message ID
for that language.
So that's kind of cool.
That's part of our
build process as well.
And so finally, let's talk
a little bit about gulp.
So I mentioned earlier that
we use gulp to build stuff.
We can also use gulp
to serve things.
So if we type gulp
serve here, we actually
see it will do the same thing.
It'll do this default compile
step, which yet again is
happening pretty fast for me.
And then we'll actually
run a web server.
This is the best way to run
it and test it and track
it yourself.
And the serve command, as well,
will also do auto reloading.
So if I change something-- let's
say I change this boat load
scene to have some
text just somewhere--
Hello.
Then what you'll see is this
page will automatically reload.
And actually we weren't
even on that scene,
but if we load it up, you can
see that text now appearing
there.
Very good.
Very suddenly in the
corner there's a hello.
So hopefully, you've
learned a little bit
about the way you can build
and test Santa Tracker even
on your own machine.
So Santa Tracker is a big,
complicated, single-page
application.
It really has one entry
point, and then it
loads the individual scenes
as we need them, which
is super interesting in itself.
If you want to learn a
little bit more about that
and also build
instructions of how
to run and build Santa Tracker,
there's some links below.
The article I'm linking to is
an article I wrote last year,
which talks about how
Santa Tracker was made
into a progressive web app.
And while, of course,
that's a little bit
of a different
topic, it actually
covers a little
bit about loading.
And this is important
because as a PWA
we care about
offline and caching.
And so one thing we
do that's interesting
is that we only cache scenes
users have been to before.
And that matches the way we load
scenes only as users need them,
rather than loading
the whole site at once.
So thanks for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
Thanks for watching.
You can subscribe to the
Google Chrome Developer channel
down here, or check out some
other great videos along here.